The legs in my rough sketch here are well they're very rough.
There's not a lot of detail to help us figure out what this is going to look like in a 3D model.
So we're going to have to work that out.
What I think we're going to need to do.
Much like we did for the shoulder joint is to find some faces on the body that we can extrude out.
I kind of want to have a place where the upper leg joint can go into kind of like we did with the shoulder.
So I think if I select the body here and tab into Edit Mode Well then go to face mode with control tab
and then selecting face.
I think these are the faces I want to use.
So with those faces selected I'm going to press X and delete faces.
And now once again I've got an eight sided hole here which means if I'm going to extrude a circular
piece I need an eight sided cylinder so I will tab back into object mode and come over here to the Create
tab and when I click cylinder it will pop into the center of the grid because the cursor is here.
So I click cylinder and for this one I have it already set at eight sides but I have the cap Phil set
to nothing and I need to change that to triangle fan I'm just going to de-select these on the top here.
And then everything else can go.
I'll hit X and faces.
Now I need to bring the origin of the object back into the center of the geometry.
So in the Tools tab or click Set origin and origin to geometry and that will bring that pivot point
back to the center of that of that object.
And once again I think what I will do is select this edge with Allt select shift asked to move the cursor
to the selected select this object and shift asked to move the selection to the cursor.
And there we go.
I think I will rotate it a bit so it kind of fits in there a little better.
And I'll also shrink it down some with this with the esky something like that.
All right.
So from here I'm going to go back to the body and select that edge again I'll zoom in and from here
I'm going to hit the e key to extrude these edges.
Click the mouse and then with the Eski scale in just a bit.
Now I need to connected these pieces up to the circle here.
And of course to do that I need to combine these objects.
So going to select the circle shows select the body and then press control J.
And that will combine these two objects.
Now if I hit the tab key they both go into edit mode and I can choose these vertices now so like this
one and this one and press alt M and choose at last and go around and do the same thing for each of
these points.
So now we have that round hole in the main body that we can use to extrude out for the leg joint.
I feel like I'd like to make that hole a little bigger.
So what I want to do is press the C key to go to circle select and click and drag these faces as well
as the ones around it.
And then all right click to get out of circle select mode.
Scale this up just a bit.
I want that to be just a little bigger.
I'm going to press control minus on the number pad to reduce the selection and maybe just hit the G
key and pull this out just a little bit maybe even rotate at some and we go just for now to see how
that's going to work.
I might want to adjust some of these points here.
So now I'm going to select these points or these faces and extrude out with the key and just pull straight
out like that.
Now I think I'm going to flare it out with the key and to scale it out some.
And then I'm going to hit you again and click and then hit s and scale him to create this rim around
there and then I think I want to hit you again push in some and then hit the s key and scale that in.
So the edges don't overlap here.
Something like that.
Now I want to center up that cursor there so I'm going to go to edge mode here.
Alt select this shift s and cursor to selected.
Now when I create a sphere for that joint it will pop right down there where the 3D cursor is.
So I go to the Create tab and click U-V sphere and I'll put this right in here.
Now for this one I think I'm going to pull it out some and try and center it up.
Something like that yes.
I'm going to create the upper leg.
Now I want to take the 3-D cursor back to the center of the grid click on cylinder and this time I think
I want this cylinder to be 12 faces and it does not need a cap.
Phil so I'll scale it down and move it into place.
So with the top part in place I'll just go into edit mode and choose that bottom edge here.
And maybe switch to local transform orientation with alt space and local and then move this out and
maybe scale it in some
I'll also rotate it a bit and move it forward.
So.
So we get a slight bend in the legs in its default position.
Now another way I can rotate this into place is to use that 3D cursor again.
And I can slide this fear and pop the 3D cursor to the selected and then if I select the upper leg here
I can change that point of rotation from the median point to the 3D cursor.
Now if I go to my rotate tool I can rotate it around that sphere so maybe I put it up a little bit like
this and I can rotate it out or back in like that.
I hope you're seeing now how useful the 3D cursor can be for rotating placing creating it's really useful
once you get used to the underlying logic of it.
So I'm going to take the 3-D cursor to the selected and then tab back into object mode.
And create a U-V sphere there as well and scale it down.
And put it in place.